Google Summer of Code has three evaluations. Here are evaluation notes from my mentors [Jared Watts](https://github.com/jbw976/) and [Travis Nielsen](https://github.com/travisn)
## First Evaluation
### Mentor (Travs Nielsen) Notes:
Rohan is self driven, motivated, and engaged with me as a mentor and with the project overall. He has taken the lead on driving the prototype and design of the project and asking for feedback, without being pressed for his progress. He takes the time to investigate a full solution and understand the big picture, which has helped the design converge and be approved on schedule and with the right approach. His attention to detail and patience to see the solution get to high quality has been beneficial to the project.

His schedule has been very flexible to accommodate the schedule of mentors and the team despite being on the other side of the globe, once again demonstrating his dedication to this project.

Integrating more into the community would help Rohan expand his knowledge of the entire Rook project and the scenarios required by the community. While he has focused on his individual project, he would benefit by more broadly participating in other user issues or pull requests. Note that this engagement should not take away from his ability to deliver, but with some small amount of time it could grow his perspective on cloud-native architecture.

## Second Evaluation
### Mentor (jbw976) Notes:
Rohan has done an excellent job on digging into the implementation phase of the project and demonstrated high proficiency with the relevant technologies such as Kubernetes, container runtimes, operators, golang, etc. He has continuously published his progress to a public work in progress pull request so the community can stay updated on the implementation of the feature and provide feedback. The scope of Rohan's efforts has also been fairly comprehensive with full user guides, examples and documentation to accompany the technical implementation of the feature. The mentors have given him guidance on some of the key design decisions as we have all learned more about the feature together during the iteration process, but he has done a lot of the implementation effort very independently, especially the debugging and troubleshooting work to get the feature working correctly. We are impressed with how much Rohan has been able to investigate and resolve on his own to unblock himself. We have provided the feedback that he should engage the mentors more proactively to help remove obstacles more quickly which he has started to do as he has been pushing recently to get the solution running and functional.

We would suggest that Rohan continue to become more involved with the greater Rook community as a whole. He has some hesitation on jumping into the general discussions and questions amongst the greater community, but we believe he would be an asset there with some more effort. This would not only benefit the community, but also provide Rohan with a more well rounded and diverse experience in this technology space that will help him grow and mature as an engineer.

## Final Evaluation
### Mentor (jbw976) Notes:
Rohan was able to deliver on the agreed upon milestones and features for his GSoC project to add Network File System (NFS) support to the Rook project. Very often Rohan was able to independently make trade-off decisions and unblock himself to make forward progress towards his deliverables, he has a knack for debugging and troubleshooting, digging into the symptoms and problems to find the root cause. When appropriate, Rohan engaged the project mentors to provide further insight and help him solve more difficult problems. There were some fairly difficult integration issues to investigate and resolve as the project timeline was nearing completion. Rohan persevered through these to find final solutions that would take the project to completion. He did not give up or back down when the project got more difficult, he showed a sense of responsibility to complete what he initially set out to do. At the end, the agreed upon feature set was implemented and functional, as well as to a level of quality that is acceptable for the coding standards and expectations of the Rook project.

While Rohan completed the planned goals of the project, I would have liked to see some stretch goals reached as well. The NFS server implementation has some constraints/limitations for the sake of simplicity, so it would have been nice to see a more robust solution that does not have any use case limitations. Perhaps Rohan can continue as a contributor to the Rook project and keep working on improving and maturing the NFS feature, we'd certainly love to have him stay on as a key contributor and continue progressing the Rook project as a whole.

A tough lesson that we learned in this experience was regarding the difficulty of writing reliable end-to-end integration tests for the feature. Rohan was confident that everything was working a couple weeks before the project end, but the integration test effort showed there were lingering issues that were not solved or accounted for yet. This can be looked at as a learning and growth opportunity that there can still be a considerable amount of work to get to the final finish line after you are initially "code complete". We've all learned this lesson before and Rohan will continue to grow as a capable developer and engineer after his successful participation in the GSoC program.
